---
title: Newsletter 016
description: A collection of links for learners, doers and thinkers
imageUrl: '/assets/images/posts/internaut.webp'
imageDescription: # decorative
date: 2024-08-22
author: Julian Cebulla
authorImageUrl: '/assets/images/authors/julian.webp'
---
## ✨ Happy 3-2-1 treats day!✨
Good day everyone,

It is time for another round of our newsletter.

This week is [Internaut Day](https://home.cern/news/news/computing/internaut-day-and-world-wide-web). The 23.08.1991 is generally seen as the day the World Wide Web went public.

Nobody could forsee the impact this will have on the whole world.
For most people a life without the open web would be drastically different.

That is why this edition of the newsletter will focus on open standards and software in the public domain.

As usual I prepared 3 things for learners, 2 things for doers, and 1 question for thinkers all about the topic open source and open standards. No matter if you are a learner, a doer, a thinker, two or all of them, we hope you’ll find something to enjoy.


## 3 things for learners
How open source software powers modern filmmaking <br/>
https://github.com/readme/featured/open-source-filmmaking

Octoverse: The state of open source and rise of AI in 2023<br>
https://github.blog/news-insights/research/the-state-of-open-source-and-ai/

Scaling standards and community in your organization <br />
https://github.com/readme/guides/federated-model


## 2 things for doers
Use open source to improve your projects documentation<br />
https://thedeven.org/documentation-skeleton/

How to Contribute to Open Source<br>
https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/


## 1 question for thinkers
Would coding standards make your day to day work better?

<br />

Thank you for reading!

If you have any resources you think your colleagues should know about, please let me know, so it can be added to a future newsletter.<br />
Julian from DEVEN

<br />

P.S.: This time there is no CodePen coding challenge. Instead we want to challenge you to contribute to a open source software of your choice.

If you do not know where to start you can follow the second link under the [2 things for doers](#2-things-for-doers).

Any kind of contribution that improves a project is a good and worthwhile time investment. This does not need to be a code change, it can also include documentation updates, fixing typos and others.

Happy contributing 🧑‍🚀